# ldpc-encoder-decoder
In information theory, a Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC) code is a linear error correcting code, a method of transmitting a message over a noisy transmission channel.<br>
An LDPC is constructed using a sparse Tanner graph (subclass of the bipartite graph). LDPC codes are capacity-approaching codes, which means that practical constructions exist that allow the noise threshold to be set very close to the theoretical maximum (the Shannon limit) for a symmetric memoryless channel.<br> The noise threshold defines an upper bound for the channel noise, up to which the probability of lost information can be made as small as desired.<br> Using iterative belief propagation techniques, LDPC codes can be decoded in time linear to their block length. LDPC codes are finding increasing use in applications requiring reliable and highly efficient information transfer over bandwidth-constrained or return-channel-constrained links in the presence of corrupting noise. LDPC (Low Density Parity Check) is used for PDSCH and PUSCH.<br> 
Low density parity check (LDPC) codes are linear block codes used for error detection and correction mostly in high speed digital communication systems like digital broadcasting, optical fibre communications and wireless local area networks. LDPC codes have been subject to extensive research because of their significant performance in error correction. LDPC Code is a type of Block Error Correction code discovered and performance very close to Shanon’s limit .Good error correcting performance enables reliable communication. Since its discovery by Gallagar there is more research going on for its efficient construction and implementation. Though there is no unique method for constructing LDPC codes. Implementation of LDPC Code is done by taking different factors into consideration such as error rate, parallelism of decoder, ease in implementation etc. <br>
This mini-project work undertaken by us involves the simulation of LDPC encoding/decoding using Matlab, Generating Verilog/VHDL code for the hardware implementation of LDPC encoding/decoding using tools like Matlab or Python .Testing and verification of the results in suitable hardware. <br>
In this mini-project we as a team are exploring different fields of electronics using a single mini-project which has simulation, hardware and software parts.<br>
